pages/katalon-recorder/docs/Get Your Job Done/Automate Scenarios/automate-scenarios.md, before:

---
title: "Basics of automating scenarios"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-recorder/docs/automate-scenarios.html
description:
---

Automating a scenario in KR is essentially adding actions, either through recording or manually.

## Automate your first scenario

### 1/ Start recording

Once the extension is opened, open https://www.airbnb.com/ to automate booking a place to stay. Minimize and position the window in a way that allows you to see what's going on with KR. Click on the button with the red circle to start a recording session.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image1.png)

Start interacting with the website. Perform any activity like you would normally do. The interactions will be recorded in KR.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image2.png)

### 2/ Use context menu to add actions

Right-clicking on any element, select _Katalon Recorder (Selenium tests generator) \> waitForElementPresent_. This adds the step _waitForElementPresent_ with the value being the locator of the selected element.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image3.png)

### 3/ Rename your test for better readability

Click on the _Stop_ button.Rename your test case by right clicking on the test case and choose _Rename Test Case._

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image4.png)

### 4/ Save your test case/test suite

Right click on the Test Suite and choose _Save Test Suite as_, KR will save your test suite, along with the test cases, into a HTML file.

---

## Add actions to a scenario

After recording a scenario, you may choose to extend it by adding actions manually.

### 1/ Add a new step

Click on the button with the _Plus icon._

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image5.png)

### 2/ Specify an action

Click on the _down arrow_ next to the command input and choose a desired action.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image6.png)

### 3/ Read how to use the action & parameters

Click on _Reference_ tab at the bottom panel. Then click on each action to see the documentation.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image7.png)

---
## Save data
From 5.3.31, users can quickly save changes made to test cases via shortcuts `ctrl + s` or right-click on a test case and choose **Save Test Case**.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image8.png)


## Remove data
### Delete operations

From 5.3.31, KR implement some UX enhancements to help users more aware before removing data.

Specifically, the following operations are changed from:
- **Remove test case** to **Remove Test Case from Workspace**.
- **Close Test Suite** to **Remove Test Suite from Workspace**.
- **Close All Test Suites to** to **Remove all Test Suites from Workspace**.
- **Save Test Suite as** to **Save Test Suite to Computer**.

### Remove test suite
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image9.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image11.png)

### Remove test case
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image10.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image12.png)

Commit message:

Separate Automate Scenarios into Tutorials, References and Explanations

pages/katalon-recorder/docs/Get Your Job Done/Automate Scenarios/automate-scenarios.md, after:

---
title: "Basics of automating scenarios"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-recorder/docs/automate-scenarios.html
description:
---

Automating a scenario in KR is essentially adding actions, either through recording or manually.

## Tutorials
### Automate your first scenario

#### 1/ Start recording

Once the extension is opened, open https://www.airbnb.com/ to automate booking a place to stay. Minimize and position the window in a way that allows you to see what's going on with KR. Click on the button with the red circle to start a recording session.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image1.png)

Start interacting with the website. Perform any activity like you would normally do. The interactions will be recorded in KR.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image2.png)

#### 2/ Use context menu to add actions

Right-clicking on any element, select _Katalon Recorder (Selenium tests generator) \> waitForElementPresent_. This adds the step _waitForElementPresent_ with the value being the locator of the selected element.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image3.png)

#### 3/ Rename your test for better readability

Click on the _Stop_ button.Rename your test case by right clicking on the test case and choose _Rename Test Case._

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image4.png)

#### 4/ Save your test case/test suite

Right click on the Test Suite and choose _Save Test Suite as_, KR will save your test suite, along with the test cases, into a HTML file.

---

### Add actions to a scenario

After recording a scenario, you may choose to extend it by adding actions manually.

#### 1/ Add a new step

Click on the button with the _Plus icon._

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image5.png)

#### 2/ Specify an action

Click on the _down arrow_ next to the command input and choose a desired action.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/au#tomate-scenarios/image6.png)

#### 3/ Read how to use the action & parameters

Click on _Reference_ tab at the bottom panel. Then click on each action to see the documentation.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image7.png)

---

## References
### Save data
From 5.3.31, users can quickly save changes made to test cases via shortcuts `ctrl + s` or right-click on a test case and choose **Save Test Case**.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image8.png)


### Remove data
#### Delete operations

From 5.3.31, KR implement some UX enhancements to help users more aware before removing data.

Specifically, the following operations are changed from:
- **Remove test case** to **Remove Test Case from Workspace**.
- **Close Test Suite** to **Remove Test Suite from Workspace**.
- **Close All Test Suites to** to **Remove all Test Suites from Workspace**.
- **Save Test Suite as** to **Save Test Suite to Computer**.

#### Remove Test Suite from Workspace
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image9.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image11.png)

#### Remove Test Case from Workspace
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image10.png)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/master/katalon-recorder/docs/jtbd/automate-scenarios/image12.png)

## Explanations
### Save data
Ideally, your changes should be persisted to a permanent storage. However, due to web extension's limitations, we cannot store your test cases and test suites directly to OS. 

By default, changes made to your tests will be stored into a browser storage dedicated to KR. As long as you have KR installed in your browser, your data will be safe. But when you uninstall KR, your data will be deleted. This is why we implement certain [UX enhancements](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-recorder/docs/automate-scenarios.html#delete-operations) that will help you be extra cautious before you do anything that may cause permanent data loss.
