pages/katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS.md, before:

---
title: "Upload Test Results from Katalon Studio"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS.html
redirect_from:
    - "/display/KA/From+Katalon+Studio/"
    - "/display/KA/From%20Katalon%20Studio/"
    - "/x/wBxO/"
    - "/katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS/"
    - "/katalon-studio/tutorials/upload_test_execution_reports_katalon_analytics.html"
description:
---

## Automatically

1. In Katalon Studio, select **Project > Settings > Integration > Katalon Analytics**.
2. Enable integration and enter your Katalon account, then click **Connect**. You will be able to select your Team and Project to upload test results.
3. Check **Automatically submit test run result** option. Users can also choose to attach screenshots.

![automatically](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/from-katalon-studio/1-import-ks.png)

## Manually

1. Navigate to **Result Tab** at the bottom of each Test Suite or Test Suite Collection.
2. Select **Katalon Analytics** in the Test Cases Table, then select **Upload**.

![manually](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/from-katalon-studio/2-import-ks.png)

Once having successfully uploaded the test results, you can double-check on Katalon Analytics.

Commit message:

"upload document for manually update result from test collection/test suit to KA"

pages/katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS.md, after:

---
title: "Upload Test Results from Katalon Studio"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS.html
redirect_from:
    - "/display/KA/From+Katalon+Studio/"
    - "/display/KA/From%20Katalon%20Studio/"
    - "/x/wBxO/"
    - "/katalon-analytics/docs/project-management-import-KS/"
    - "/katalon-studio/tutorials/upload_test_execution_reports_katalon_analytics.html"
description:
---

## Automatically

1. In Katalon Studio, select **Project > Settings > Integration > Katalon Analytics**.
2. Enable integration and enter your Katalon account, then click **Connect**. You will be able to select your Team and Project to upload test results.
3. Check **Automatically submit test run result** option. Users can also choose to attach screenshots.

![automatically](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/from-katalon-studio/1-import-ks.png)

## Manually

1. Navigate to **Home Page** and click on **Katalon TestOps** icon on the top right-hand corner.
![manually](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43736150/66178463-aab1c680-e68f-11e9-9347-200d6945f26f.png)
2. When Satalon TestOps dialog pops up, select the team and project you want to upload, then select **Upload**.
![manually](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43736150/66178577-03815f00-e690-11e9-8887-0b36ec35370a.png)

Once having successfully uploaded the test results, you can double-check on Katalon Analytics.
