pages/katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans.md, before:

---
title: "View Remote Execution Plans Summary in Katalon Studio" 
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans.html 
description: 
---
Starting from Katalon Studio version 7.6.6, you can view your remote execution plan summary in your application once you have configured TestOps integration.

> Visit [Katalon TestOps](https://wwww.analytics.katalon.com) to execute tests remotely and view details of your test plans with TestOps CI.

## Prerequisites

- You have already configured TestOps integration. [Learn more](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/katalon-analytics-beta-integration.html)

- You have set up at least one remote execution plan in TestOps CI. [Learn more](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-analytics/docs/kt-remote-execution.html)

## View CI Plans

In the Tests Explorer of Katalon Studio, go to **TestOps** > **Plans**. Here you can view the summary of your test plans that have been configured in TestOps CI. 

Click on the **Plan Name** to view plan details.


![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans/plans.png)


> Click on **Reload** icon to view the latest updates.

Commit message:

change Plan to Test Run Types

pages/katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans.md, after:

---
title: "View Remote Execution Plans Summary in Katalon Studio" 
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans.html 
description: 
---
Starting from Katalon Studio version 7.9.1, you can view your remote execution plan summary in your application once you have configured TestOps integration.

> Visit [Katalon TestOps](https://wwww.analytics.katalon.com) to execute tests remotely and view details of your test plans with TestOps CI.

## Prerequisites

- You have already configured TestOps integration. [Learn more](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/katalon-analytics-beta-integration.html)

- You have set up at least one remote execution Test Run Type in TestOps. [Learn more](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-analytics/docs/kt-remote-execution.html)

## View Test Run Types

In the Tests Explorer of Katalon Studio, go to **TestOps** > **Test Run Types**. Here you can view the summary of your Test Run Type that have been configured in TestOps. 

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans/ks_testops_test_run_type.png)

Click on the name of the list to view Test Run Types details.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-analytics/docs/view-ci-plans/ks_click_name_test_run_type.png)

> On Katalon TestOps, click on the **Reload** icon to view the latest updates.
