pages/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: "Installation Overview"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/getting-started.html
redirect_from:
    - "/display/KD/Getting+Started/"
    - "/display/KD/Getting%20Started/"
    - "/display/KD/Installation+and+Setup/"
    - "/x/l4Ei/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/"
    - "/display/KD/Before+You+Start/"
    - "/display/KD/Before%20You%20Start/"
    - "/x/HwAM/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/before-you-start/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/before-you-start.html"
    - "/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio.html"
    - "/display/KD/Installation+and+Setup/"
    - "/display/KD/Installation%20and%20Setup/"
description:
---
Download Katalon Studio
-----------------------

Go to [Katalon Download page](https://www.katalon.com/download/) to get the latest version of Katalon Studio. A suitable version for your system will be automatically detected and recommended for download. However, you can also select your preferred version on the page. Before diving further into automation testing, check out the [System Requirements](/display/KD/System+Requirements) needed to run Katalon Studio. 

> Download older versions
>
> You can download older versions of Katalon Studio from its [Github repository](https://github.com/katalon-studio/katalon-studio/releases).

Environment Requirements
------------------------

* Verify if your computer meets the [System Requirements](http://docs.katalon.com/display/KD/System+Requirements) to work with Katalon Studio.

* Ensure you are using Katalon Studio with default font OS size set too 100% from both Katalon Studio and your current OS to avoid the name field not displaying on some popups:
    * Windows: [https://www.pcworld.com/article/242942/how\_to\_change\_font\_size.html](https://www.pcworld.com/article/242942/how_to_change_font_size.html)
    * Katalon Studio: Window → Preferences → General → Appearance → Colors and Fonts. Select Dialog Font and Edit its font size.

Start Katalon Studio
--------------------

To start Katalon Studio, double-click on the **katalon.exe** (Microsoft Windows)

![Download and Start Katalon Studio](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/Starting-Katalon-Studio.png)

or **Katalon Studio** (macOS) file in the directory where you unpack Katalon Studio. For example:

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/Katalon-MacOS.png "init-size")

Once started, the application should display the splash screen similar to the following screenshot:

![Katalon Studio Loading](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/image2016-10-20-143A113A21.png)

Activate Katalon Studio
-----------------------

If you don't have an account with Katalon Studio, provide your desired username and password to sign up after launching Katalon Studio. If you already have an account, choose the **Sign In** option and provide your credentials. If you don't have Internet access while activating Katalon Studio, request [an offline activation code](https://www.katalon.com/activation/) beforehand. For more details, refer to this [guide](/x/ERLR).

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/image2018-8-30-143A133A37.png)

Configurations for Web UI Testing
---------------------------------

* If you do **Web Testing**, make sure to install your preferred web browsers. Refer to the list of [supported browsers](/display/KD/Supported+Environments) for more details.

* **Katalon Automation Recorder** extension is required for capturing objects in **Active Browser** (refer to [Spy Web Utility](/x/5BZO#SpyWebUtility(sinceversion5.0.0)-CaptureobjectsusingWebObjectSpy) and [Record & Playback](/display/KD/Record+Web+Utility) for more details. Refer to this [guide](/x/JYgw).

* **Internet Explorer** must be configured to run automation tests on IE. Refer to [IE configurations guide](/x/iwEo).

Configurations for Mobile UI Testing
------------------------------------

* [Mobile on Windows](/display/KD/Mobile+on+Windows)

* [Mobile on macOS](/display/KD/Mobile+on+macOS)

Linux Support
-------------

In addition to Windows and macOS, Katalon Studio also provides a beta [Linux support](/display/KD/Linux+Support).

Getting a Sample Project Up and Running
---------------------------------------

When you use Katalon Studio for the first time, you have the option to create New Project or Sample Projects to become familiar with the tool.

\- You can create a new sample project through **File > New Sample Project** and select your preferred project. Enter the name of your new project and the location to store the project data on your machine.

\- When the sample project is loaded, you can view a test case or a test suite by selecting it in the Test Explorer on the left of the UI.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/Screen-Shot-2018-09-06-at-2.32.06-PM.png)

\- To execute the script, go to the Run command on the Main toolbar.

_NOTE_: You can specify the target browser to be launched by selecting from the _Run_ drop-down list.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/Screen-Shot-2018-09-06-at-2.33.04-PM.png)

Katalon Studio provides a **Job Progress** tab to show the status of your execution as well as the **Log Viewer** to let you identify any potential problems that may have occurred.

That's it! You can now open a project and execute a test using Katalon Studio. You can also modify parts of these provided sample projects to become familiar with the tool.

Where to Go Next?
-----------------

Check out our [Overview](/display/KD/Overview) to see the list of all the resources available in this Documentation page and beyond.

Commit message:

update a note for Catalina users+ remove oudated activation

pages/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: "Installation Overview"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/getting-started.html
redirect_from:
    - "/display/KD/Getting+Started/"
    - "/display/KD/Getting%20Started/"
    - "/display/KD/Installation+and+Setup/"
    - "/x/l4Ei/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/"
    - "/display/KD/Before+You+Start/"
    - "/display/KD/Before%20You%20Start/"
    - "/x/HwAM/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/before-you-start/"
    - "/katalon-studio/docs/before-you-start.html"
    - "/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio.html"
    - "/display/KD/Installation+and+Setup/"
    - "/display/KD/Installation%20and%20Setup/"
description:
---
Download Katalon Studio
-----------------------

Go to [Katalon Download page](https://www.katalon.com/download/) to get the latest version of Katalon Studio. A suitable version for your system will be automatically detected and recommended for download. However, you can also select your preferred version on the page. Before diving further into automation testing, check out the [System Requirements](/display/KD/System+Requirements) needed to run Katalon Studio. 

> Download older versions
>
> You can download older versions of Katalon Studio from its [Github repository](https://github.com/katalon-studio/katalon-studio/releases).

Environment Requirements
------------------------

* Verify if your computer meets the [System Requirements](http://docs.katalon.com/display/KD/System+Requirements) to work with Katalon Studio.

* Ensure you are using Katalon Studio with default font OS size set too 100% from both Katalon Studio and your current OS to avoid the name field not displaying on some popups:
    * Windows: [https://www.pcworld.com/article/242942/how\_to\_change\_font\_size.html](https://www.pcworld.com/article/242942/how_to_change_font_size.html)
    * Katalon Studio: Window → Preferences → General → Appearance → Colors and Fonts. Select Dialog Font and Edit its font size.

Start Katalon Studio
--------------------

### For Windows

To start Katalon Studio, double-click on the **katalon.exe**.

![Download and Start Katalon Studio](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/Starting-Katalon-Studio.png)

### For macOS

**Katalon Studio** (macOS) file in the directory where you unpack Katalon Studio.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/Katalon-MacOS.png "init-size")

> Notes: If you currently use macOS Catalina, you have to enable Katalon Studio and Katalon Studio Engine applications in  **System Preferences/ Security & Privacy/ General**.

Once started, the application should display the splash screen similar to the following screenshot:

![Katalon Studio Loading](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/tutorials/install_setup_katalon_studio/image2016-10-20-143A113A21.png)

Activate Katalon Studio
-----------------------

If you don't have an account with Katalon Studio, provide your desired username and password to sign up after launching the app. If you have an account, please read more about licenses and how to activate each license in [Katalon Studio Licensing](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/license.html).

Configurations for Web UI Testing
---------------------------------

* If you do **Web Testing**, make sure to install your preferred web browsers. Refer to the list of [supported browsers](/display/KD/Supported+Environments) for more details.

* **Katalon Automation Recorder** extension is required for capturing objects in **Active Browser** (refer to [Spy Web Utility](/x/5BZO#SpyWebUtility(sinceversion5.0.0)-CaptureobjectsusingWebObjectSpy) and [Record & Playback](/display/KD/Record+Web+Utility) for more details. Refer to this [guide](/x/JYgw).

* **Internet Explorer** must be configured to run automation tests on IE. Refer to [IE configurations guide](/x/iwEo).

Configurations for Mobile UI Testing
------------------------------------

* [Mobile on Windows](/display/KD/Mobile+on+Windows)

* [Mobile on macOS](/display/KD/Mobile+on+macOS)

Linux Support
-------------

In addition to Windows and macOS, Katalon Studio also provides a beta [Linux support](/display/KD/Linux+Support).

Getting a Sample Project Up and Running
---------------------------------------

When you use Katalon Studio for the first time, you have the option to create New Project or Sample Projects to become familiar with the tool.

\- You can create a new sample project through **File > New Sample Project** and select your preferred project. Enter the name of your new project and the location to store the project data on your machine.

\- When the sample project is loaded, you can view a test case or a test suite by selecting it in the Test Explorer on the left of the UI.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/Screen-Shot-2018-09-06-at-2.32.06-PM.png)

\- To execute the script, go to the Run command on the Main toolbar.

_NOTE_: You can specify the target browser to be launched by selecting from the _Run_ drop-down list.

![](https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/getting-started/Screen-Shot-2018-09-06-at-2.33.04-PM.png)

Katalon Studio provides a **Job Progress** tab to show the status of your execution as well as the **Log Viewer** to let you identify any potential problems that may have occurred.

That's it! You can now open a project and execute a test using Katalon Studio. You can also modify parts of these provided sample projects to become familiar with the tool.

Where to Go Next?
-----------------

Check out our [Overview](/display/KD/Overview) to see the list of all the resources available in this Documentation page and beyond.
