pages/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule.md, before:

---
title: "Fixing broken Web Test Objects with time capsule" 
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule.html 
---
Previously, to fix a broken test object, you have to manually reproduce the state of the application under test (AUT) on failure. This approach is time-consuming. With automated tests using a Data-driven testing framework, it is even more tedious, complicating, and exhausting to reproduce the exact state of AUT manually when there is a large amount of test data.

To tackle this issue, Katalon Studio **7.8** supports restoring the AUT to the state when the test fails due to locators not finding Web UI objects. This powerful capability allows you to open a "time capsule" for fixing broken objects, reducing reproduction effort, and cutting off time spent on troubleshooting and maintaining your test scripts.

> Only applicable to Web UI testing.

Notably, two enhancements assist you in optimizing the workflow of fixing your tests:

1. The test engine captures the snapshot (in HTML) of your AUT upon failures automatically. The snapshot stored in the **Report** folder of a project allows you to time-travel to AUT's state when it failed.
2. For a specific exception of `com.kms.katalon.core.webui.exception.WebElementNotFoundException: Web element with id ... not found`, you can trigger the 'time capsule' in either the **Log Viewer** of a Test Case or a Test Suite Report. 

The following usage examples illustrate how to trigger the "time capsule" when a test case or a test suite fails.

### Failed Test Case Execution scenario

Once a test case execution fails due to `com.kms.katalon.core.webui.exception.WebElementNotFoundException: Web element with id ... not found.` In **Log Viewer** of that test case, you can click on “**Click here to fix broken Test Object**” to open the captured state of the AUT with the Spy Tool automatically.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule/test-case-fail.gif">

### Failed Test Suite execution scenario

Similarly, when a Test Suite contains at least one failed Test Case due to broken locators, in Test Suite's Result/Report, you can click on the link “**Click here to fix broken Test Object**” to open the captured state of the AUT with the Spy Tool automatically.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule/test-suite-fail.gif">

Commit message:

Update Time Capsule docs to note it works on Chrome only

pages/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule.md, after:

---
title: "Fixing broken Web Test Objects with time capsule" 
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule.html 
---
Previously, to fix a broken test object, you have to manually reproduce the state of the application under test (AUT) on failure. This approach is time-consuming. With automated tests using a Data-driven testing framework, it is even more tedious, complicating, and exhausting to reproduce the exact state of AUT manually when there is a large amount of test data.

To tackle this issue, Katalon Studio **7.8** supports restoring the AUT to the state when the test fails due to locators not finding Web UI objects. This powerful capability allows you to open a "time capsule" for fixing broken objects, reducing reproduction effort, and cutting off time spent on troubleshooting and maintaining your test scripts.

> Only applicable to Web UI testing and **Chrome browser** at the moment

Notably, two enhancements assist you in optimizing the workflow of fixing your tests:

1. The test engine captures the snapshot (in HTML) of your AUT upon failures automatically. The snapshot stored in the **Report** folder of a project allows you to time-travel to AUT's state when it failed.
2. For a specific exception of `com.kms.katalon.core.webui.exception.WebElementNotFoundException: Web element with id ... not found`, you can trigger the 'time capsule' in either the **Log Viewer** of a Test Case or a Test Suite Report. 

The following usage examples illustrate how to trigger the "time capsule" when a test case or a test suite fails.

### Failed Test Case Execution scenario

Once a test case execution fails due to `com.kms.katalon.core.webui.exception.WebElementNotFoundException: Web element with id ... not found.` In **Log Viewer** of that test case, you can click on “**Click here to fix broken Test Object**” to open the captured state of the AUT with the Spy Tool automatically.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule/test-case-fail.gif">

### Failed Test Suite execution scenario

Similarly, when a Test Suite contains at least one failed Test Case due to broken locators, in Test Suite's Result/Report, you can click on the link “**Click here to fix broken Test Object**” to open the captured state of the AUT with the Spy Tool automatically.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/time-capsule/test-suite-fail.gif">
