pages/katalon-studio/docs/windows_recorder_tutorials.md, before:

---
title: "Windows Record Tutorials"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/windows-recorder-tutorials.html
---
> * From **version 7.0**, you can record a test on a Windows desktop application.
>
> * From **version 7.7.5**, Katalon supports recording and locating a Windows element by its relative coordinates. The `clickElementOffset` and `rightClickElementOffset` keywords are available and their buttons are supported in **Possible Actions**.
>    * [[Windows] Click Element Offset](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/windows-kw-click-element-offset.html)
>    * [[Windows] Right-click Element Offset](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/windows-kw-rightclick-element-offset.html)

**Precondition**

* [Setting up WinAppDriver](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/setup-winappdriver.html)

## Recording

1. To start recording a Windows action, Click the **Record Windows Action** icon on the main toolbar of Katalon Studio.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/introduction-desktop-app-testing/Windows_Record_Action.png" width="600.5" height="65">

2. The Windows Recorder dialog box is displayed. Specify the information at the **CONFIGURATIONS** section.

* **Configuration**: where you can view and edit the `WinAppDriver URL` and `Desired Capabilities`.

* **Application File**: the absolute path to the `Windows Executable File (*.exe)` of the testing machine. For Windows users, click **Browse...** button to locate the application file.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Record-step2.png" width="402" height="144">

    The **Start** button is enabled after the Application File text box is filled.

    Click **Start** when you're done with the settings.

3. The specified Windows application is deployed and opened on a testing machine.

4. The **Screen View** dialog box is displayed to show the current screenshot of your application on the testing machine.

    All the Windows objects in that screenshot are analyzed and organized in a tree at the **Screen Objects** section.

    Click on any object in that tree and it's highlighted in the Screen View accordingly.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/highlighted.png">

5. Select an element, then specify an action to perform at the **Possible Actions** section.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/actions.png" width="299" height="147">

6. All of the specified actions above are recorded at the **Recorded Actions** section.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/step-6.png" width="424" height="193">

   In **Captured Objects**, you can view all elements captured during the recording session. Here you can customize the locator of a captured object by modifying it in the Locator tab of **Object Properties** and clicking **Highlight** to verify if the new locator correctly identifies the intended object.

7. You can stop the application or start another application if needed. To reload the **Screen View** as well as **Screen Objects**, simply click on the **Refresh Screen** button.\
    When you’re done with recording, click **OK** to save the recorded actions in Katalon Studio.

8. You will be prompted to save the captured objects in the Object Repository of Katalon Studio. Choose an existing folder or create a new one, then click **OK** to continue.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Step9.png" width="267" height="258">

9. When you finish your recording session, export the  recorded steps to a new test case.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Export-new-TC.png" width="494" height="197">

10. Recorded objects and actions are saved in the test case.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/test-case.png" width="609" height="191">

## Executing a test case

Remember to turn on the WinAppDriver before executing a test case.

Select the **Windows** icon in the **Run** button on the main Toolbar to execute the script.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/step13.png" width="228" height="330">

The Windows test is executed with those recorded steps accordingly.

>**Notes**:
>
> 1. Remember not to lock your screen while spying, recording or executing a test on a desktop application.
> 2. You're recommended not to run multiple applications simultaneously.
> 3. To start a UWP application, the application's execute file should be:
> 
> * *ApplicationID* if your app is published on Microsoft store
> * *PackageFamilyName!Application ID* if your app is still in development

Commit message:

update description of coordinates-based recording

pages/katalon-studio/docs/windows_recorder_tutorials.md, after:

---
title: "Windows Record Tutorials"
sidebar: katalon_studio_docs_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/docs/windows-recorder-tutorials.html
---
> * From **version 7.0**, you can record a test on a Windows desktop application.
> * From **version 7.7.5**, Katalon supports recording and locating a Windows element by its relative coordinates.

**Precondition**

* [Setting up WinAppDriver](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/setup-winappdriver.html)

## Coordinate-based Recording

In the Recorder, the two buttons, including **Click Element Offset** and **Right-click Element Offset** are added to **Possible Actions**, and the following keywords are supported: 

* [[Windows] Click Element Offset](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/windows-kw-click-element-offset.html)
* [[Windows] Right-click Element Offset](https://docs.katalon.com/katalon-studio/docs/windows-kw-rightclick-element-offset.html)

With coordinates-based recording, Katalon Studio records an element's relative coordinates in addition to its selector. For instance, you want to click on the red X part to close a tab in Notepad. Katalon Recorder records the button's offsets (its relative coordinates to its top-left corner) as a set of parameters representing an X and Y offset, and save them in clickElementOffset. It uses them to identify the exact location to perform a click action during runtime.

Without that element's offsets, the test engine can only click on the button's center, resulting in a failed test.

## Recording

1. To start recording a Windows action, Click the **Record Windows Action** icon on the main toolbar of Katalon Studio.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/introduction-desktop-app-testing/Windows_Record_Action.png" width="600.5" height="65">

2. The Windows Recorder dialog box is displayed. Specify the information at the **CONFIGURATIONS** section.

* **Configuration**: where you can view and edit the `WinAppDriver URL` and `Desired Capabilities`.

* **Application File**: the absolute path to the `Windows Executable File (*.exe)` of the testing machine. For Windows users, click **Browse...** button to locate the application file.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Record-step2.png" width="402" height="144">

    The **Start** button is enabled after the Application File text box is filled.

    Click **Start** when you're done with the settings.

3. The specified Windows application is deployed and opened on a testing machine.

4. The **Screen View** dialog box is displayed to show the current screenshot of your application on the testing machine.

    All the Windows objects in that screenshot are analyzed and organized in a tree at the **Screen Objects** section.

    Click on any object in that tree and it's highlighted in the Screen View accordingly.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/highlighted.png">

5. Select an element, then specify an action to perform at the **Possible Actions** section.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/actions.png" width="299" height="147">

6. All of the specified actions above are recorded at the **Recorded Actions** section.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/step-6.png" width="424" height="193">

   In **Captured Objects**, you can view all elements captured during the recording session. Here you can customize the locator of a captured object by modifying it in the Locator tab of **Object Properties** and clicking **Highlight** to verify if the new locator correctly identifies the intended object.

7. You can stop the application or start another application if needed. To reload the **Screen View** as well as **Screen Objects**, simply click on the **Refresh Screen** button.\
    When you’re done with recording, click **OK** to save the recorded actions in Katalon Studio.

8. You will be prompted to save the captured objects in the Object Repository of Katalon Studio. Choose an existing folder or create a new one, then click **OK** to continue.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Step9.png" width="267" height="258">

9. When you finish your recording session, export the  recorded steps to a new test case.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/Export-new-TC.png" width="494" height="197">

10. Recorded objects and actions are saved in the test case.

    <img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/test-case.png" width="609" height="191">

## Executing a test case

Remember to turn on the WinAppDriver before executing a test case.

Select the **Windows** icon in the **Run** button on the main Toolbar to execute the script.

<img src="https://github.com/katalon-studio/docs-images/raw/master/katalon-studio/docs/record-windows-actions/step13.png" width="228" height="330">

The Windows test is executed with those recorded steps accordingly.

>**Notes**:
>
> 1. Remember not to lock your screen while spying, recording or executing a test on a desktop application.
> 2. You're recommended not to run multiple applications simultaneously.
> 3. To start a UWP application, the application's execute file should be:
> 
> * *ApplicationID* if your app is published on Microsoft store
> * *PackageFamilyName!Application ID* if your app is still in development
