pages/katalon-studio/videos/api_testing_katalon_studio_post_request_verify_response.md, before:

---
title: "API Testing with Katalon Studio for POST request and verify the response"
sidebar: katalon_studio_videos_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/videos/api_testing_katalon_studio_post_request_verify_response.html
description: 
---
<iframe width="840" height="473" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v-eBvfkLg-8?feature=oembed" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen="">&nbsp;</iframe>

In this video, Karthik will discusses how to perform API Testing with Katalon Studio for POST request and verify the response:

1\. Create POST operation with Katalon Studio via Object Repository.

2\. Configure fields via HTTP Header and pass the corresponding values to HTTP Body.

3\. Call the GET operation via Object Repository.

4\. Catching exception to see if we make any mistakes while calling

5\. Check the POST operation by a GET

6\. GET via Parameter for the exact POST

7\. Verify the element and other objects of JSON response body

The course source code is available in GitHub [https://github.com/executeautomation/KatalonAPITesting](https://github.com/executeautomation/KatalonAPITesting)

**Note: **This video is contributed by Karthik K.K from [http://executeautomation.com/blog/](http://executeautomation.com/blog/)

Commit message:

update api_testing put request from influencer

pages/katalon-studio/videos/api_testing_katalon_studio_post_request_verify_response.md, after:

---
title: "API Testing with Katalon Studio for POST request and verify the response"
sidebar: katalon_studio_videos_sidebar
permalink: katalon-studio/videos/api_testing_katalon_studio_post_request_verify_response.html
description: 
---
<iframe width="1001" height="568" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GnsCW45X2uA?list=PLlsKgYi2Lw732Snuu4qPlkvnOykiiatKc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In this video, Rahul Rathore discusses how to send the POST request and verify the response with Katalon Studio.

1\. Create POST request with Katalon Studio via Object Repository.

2\. Configure fields in HTTP Header and pass the corresponding values to HTTP Body.

3\. Call the POST request via Object Repository.

4\. Add Verification conditions.

5\. Run a test case with POST request.

6\. Verify the element and other objects of the Response.

**Note: **This video is contributed by [Rahul Rathore](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeuu4kw1a7SRSdH7TGAn7gg)
